.TH DUMP.SSDFS 8 "2025-08-30" "ssdfs-utils" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
dump.ssdfs \- dump volume of SSDFS file system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dump.ssdfs
.RI [ options ]
.I device
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B dump.ssdfs
dumps segments' content of SSDFS file system from a given device or image file.
This utility allows inspection of SSDFS file system structures and can extract
raw data or parse specific components like headers, logs, bitmaps, and mapping tables.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-d ", " \-\-debug
Show debug output.
.TP
.BR \-g ", " \-\-granularity
Show key volume's details (default operation).
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Display help message and exit.
.TP
.BR \-o ", " \-\-output-folder " " \fIfolder\fR
Define output folder for dumped files.
.TP
.BR \-p ", " \-\-peb " " \fIid=value,peb_count=value,size=value,...\fR
Show PEB dump. Full syntax includes:
id=\fIvalue\fR,peb_count=\fIvalue\fR,size=\fIvalue\fR,log_index=\fIvalue\fR,log_count=\fIvalue\fR,log_size=\fIvalue\fR,parse_header,parse_log_footer,parse_block_bitmap,parse_blk2off_table,parse_block_state_area,parse_maptbl_cache,parse_all,raw_dump.
.TP
.BR \-q ", " \-\-quiet
Quiet execution (useful for scripts).
.TP
.BR \-r ", " \-\-raw-dump " " \fIshow,offset=value,size=value\fR
Show raw dump from specified offset and size.
.TP
.BR \-V ", " \-\-version
Print version and exit.
.SH MODES OF OPERATION
.B dump.ssdfs
operates in several modes:
.TP
.B Granularity mode (default)
Shows key volume details including superblock information, geometry, and
overall file system structure.
.TP
.B PEB dump mode
Dumps Physical Erase Block (PEB) content with various parsing options for
headers, footers, bitmaps, and mapping tables.
.TP
.B Raw dump mode
Extracts raw binary data from specified offset and size.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.B dump.ssdfs
exits with status 0 on success, or with non-zero status on error.
.SH EXAMPLES
Show key volume details (default):
.br
.B # dump.ssdfs /dev/sdb1

Dump first PEB with header parsing:
.br
.B # dump.ssdfs -p id=0,parse_header /dev/sdb1

Extract raw data from specific offset:
.br
.B # dump.ssdfs -r show,offset=1024,size=4096 /dev/sdb1

Dump PEB content to files in specific folder:
.br
.B # dump.ssdfs -o /tmp/ssdfs_dump -p id=0,parse_all /dev/sdb1
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR mkfs.ssdfs (8),
.BR fsck.ssdfs (8),
.BR tune.ssdfs (8)
.SH AUTHORS
Viacheslav Dubeyko <slava@dubeyko.com>
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2014-2026 Viacheslav Dubeyko
.br
SPDX-License-Identifier: BSD-3-Clause-Clear