.TH FSCK.SSDFS 8 "2025-08-30" "ssdfs-utils" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
fsck.ssdfs \- check and recover SSDFS file system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B fsck.ssdfs
.RI [ options ]
.I device
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B fsck.ssdfs
checks the consistency of SSDFS file system and optionally repairs it.
This utility performs various consistency checks on the file system
structures and can automatically repair detected errors or corruption.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-B ", " \-\-pagesize " " \fIsize\fR
Page size of target device. Supported sizes: 4KB, 8KB, 16KB, 32KB.
.TP
.BR \-d ", " \-\-debug
Show debug output.
.TP
.BR \-e ", " \-\-erasesize " " \fIsize\fR
Erase size of target device. Supported sizes: 128KB, 256KB, 512KB,
1MB, 2MB, 4MB, 8MB, and larger powers of 2.
.TP
.BR \-f ", " \-\-force
Force checking even if filesystem is marked clean.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Display help message and exit.
.TP
.BR \-j ", " \-\-threads " " \fInumber\fR
Define threads number for parallel processing.
.TP
.BR \-n ", " \-\-no-change
Make no changes to the filesystem (read-only check).
.TP
.BR \-p ", " \-\-auto-repair
Automatic repair of detected errors without user interaction.
.TP
.BR \-q ", " \-\-quiet
Quiet execution (useful for scripts).
.TP
.BR \-s ", " \-\-segsize " " \fIsize\fR
Segment size of target device. Supported sizes: 128KB, 256KB, 512KB,
1MB, 2MB, 4MB, 8MB, 16MB, 32MB, 64MB, and larger powers of 2.
.TP
.BR \-y ", " \-\-yes-all-questions
Assume YES to all questions (non-interactive mode).
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-be-verbose
Be verbose during operation.
.TP
.BR \-V ", " \-\-version
Print version and exit.
.SH OPERATION MODES
.B fsck.ssdfs
can operate in several modes depending on the options provided:
.TP
.B Check mode (default)
Performs consistency checks and reports errors without making changes.
.TP
.B Repair mode (-p)
Automatically repairs detected errors without user interaction.
.TP
.B Interactive mode
Prompts user for confirmation before making repairs (default unless -p or -y specified).
.TP
.B Read-only mode (-n)
Only performs checks without any modifications to the filesystem.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.B fsck.ssdfs
exits with the following status codes:
.TP
0
No errors detected.
.TP
1
File system errors corrected.
.TP
2
File system errors detected but not corrected.
.TP
4
File system errors detected, corrections recommended.
.TP
8
Operational error.
.TP
16
Usage or syntax error.
.SH EXAMPLES
Check filesystem without making changes:
.br
.B # fsck.ssdfs -n /dev/sdb1

Automatically repair filesystem:
.br
.B # fsck.ssdfs -p /dev/sdb1

Force check even if filesystem is clean:
.br
.B # fsck.ssdfs -f /dev/sdb1

Verbose check with automatic yes to all questions:
.br
.B # fsck.ssdfs -v -y /dev/sdb1
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR mkfs.ssdfs (8),
.BR tune.ssdfs (8),
.BR dump.ssdfs (8)
.SH AUTHORS
Viacheslav Dubeyko <slava@dubeyko.com>
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2025-2026 Viacheslav Dubeyko
.br
SPDX-License-Identifier: BSD-3-Clause-Clear