.TH MKFS.SSDFS 8 "2025-08-30" "ssdfs-utils" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
mkfs.ssdfs \- create volume of SSDFS file system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mkfs.ssdfs
.RI [ options ]
.I device
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B mkfs.ssdfs
creates SSDFS file system on a given device or image file.
SSDFS is a flash-friendly file system designed with goals to:
.br
(1) take into account the open-channel SSD model;
.br
(2) decrease as much as possible the write amplification issue;
.br
(3) decrease as much as possible the GC activity;
.br
(4) widely use the compression, delta-encoding, and deduplication;
.br
(5) prolong SSD lifetime;
.br
(6) decrease TCO cost of data infrastructure.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-B ", " \-\-blkbmap " " \fIhas_copy,compression=(none|zlib|lzo)\fR
Block bitmap options. The \fIhas_copy\fR option enables backup copy,
and \fIcompression\fR sets the compression type.
.TP
.BR \-C ", " \-\-compression " " \fI(none|zlib|lzo)\fR
Global compression type support. Options are: none, zlib, lzo.
.TP
.BR \-D ", " \-\-nand-dies " " \fIcount\fR
NAND dies count. Must be an even number.
.TP
.BR \-d ", " \-\-debug
Show debug output.
.TP
.BR \-e ", " \-\-erasesize " " \fIsize\fR
Erase size of target device. Supported sizes: 128KB, 256KB, 512KB,
1MB, 2MB, 4MB, 8MB, and larger powers of 2.
.TP
.BR \-f ", " \-\-force
Force overwrite of existing filesystem.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Display help message and exit.
.TP
.BR \-i ", " \-\-inode_size " " \fIsize\fR
Inode size in bytes. Supported sizes: 256B, 512B, 1KB, 2KB, 4KB.
.TP
.BR \-j ", " \-\-threads " " \fInumber\fR
Define erase threads number.
.TP
.BR \-L ", " \-\-label " " \fIlabel\fR
Set a volume label.
.TP
.BR \-M ", " \-\-maptbl " " \fIhas_copy,stripes_per_fragment=value,...\fR
PEB mapping table options. Full syntax:
has_copy,stripes_per_fragment=\fIvalue\fR,fragments_per_peb=\fIvalue\fR,log_pages=\fIvalue\fR,migration_threshold=\fIvalue\fR,reserved_pebs_per_fragment=\fIpercentage\fR,compression=(none|zlib|lzo).
.TP
.BR \-m ", " \-\-migration-threshold " " \fIvalue\fR
Max amount of migration PEBs for segment.
.TP
.BR \-O ", " \-\-offsets_table " " \fIhas_copy,compression=(none|zlib|lzo)\fR
Offsets table options.
.TP
.BR \-p ", " \-\-pagesize " " \fIsize\fR
Page size of target device. Supported sizes: 4KB, 8KB, 16KB, 32KB.
.TP
.BR \-q ", " \-\-quiet
Quiet execution (useful for scripts).
.TP
.BR \-R ", " \-\-erase-device
Erase whole device or partition by mkfs.
.TP
.BR \-S ", " \-\-segbmap " " \fIhas_copy,segs_per_chain=value,...\fR
Segment bitmap options. Full syntax:
has_copy,segs_per_chain=\fIvalue\fR,fragments_per_peb=\fIvalue\fR,log_pages=\fIvalue\fR,migration_threshold=\fIvalue\fR,compression=(none|zlib|lzo).
.TP
.BR \-s ", " \-\-segsize " " \fIsize\fR
Segment size of target device. Supported sizes: 128KB, 256KB, 512KB,
1MB, 2MB, 4MB, 8MB, 16MB, 32MB, 64MB, and larger powers of 2.
.TP
.BR \-T ", " \-\-btree " " \fInode_size=value,min_index_area_size=value,...\fR
Btrees' options. Full syntax:
node_size=\fIvalue\fR,min_index_area_size=\fIvalue\fR,leaf_node_log_pages=\fIvalue\fR,hybrid_node_log_pages=\fIvalue\fR,index_node_log_pages=\fIvalue\fR.
.TP
.BR \-U ", " \-\-user_data_segment " " \fIlog_pages=value,...\fR
User data segment options. Full syntax:
log_pages=\fIvalue\fR,migration_threshold=\fIvalue\fR,compression=(none|zlib|lzo).
.TP
.BR \-V ", " \-\-version
Print version and exit.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.B mkfs.ssdfs
exits with status 0 on success, or with non-zero status on error.
.SH EXAMPLES
Create SSDFS filesystem on /dev/sdb1:
.br
.B # mkfs.ssdfs /dev/sdb1

Create SSDFS filesystem with 8KB page size and ZLIB compression:
.br
.B # mkfs.ssdfs -p 8KB -C zlib /dev/sdb1

Create SSDFS filesystem with custom label:
.br
.B # mkfs.ssdfs -L "MyStorage" /dev/sdb1
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR fsck.ssdfs (8),
.BR tune.ssdfs (8),
.BR dump.ssdfs (8)
.SH AUTHORS
Viacheslav Dubeyko <slava@dubeyko.com>
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2014-2026 Viacheslav Dubeyko
.br
SPDX-License-Identifier: BSD-3-Clause-Clear