.TH RECOVERFS.SSDFS 8 "2025-08-30" "ssdfs-utils" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
recoverfs.ssdfs \- recover SSDFS file system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B recoverfs.ssdfs
.RI [ options ]
.I device
.I root-folder
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B recoverfs.ssdfs
extracts data from corrupted SSDFS volume. This utility is designed to
recover files and directories from damaged or corrupted SSDFS file systems
by extracting readable data to a specified root folder.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-d ", " \-\-debug
Show debug output.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Display help message and exit.
.TP
.BR \-j ", " \-\-threads " " \fInumber\fR
Define threads number for parallel processing.
.TP
.BR \-t ", " \-\-timestamp " " \fIminute=value,hour=value,day=value,month=value,year=value\fR
Define timestamp of files state to recover. All parameters are required:
minute (0-60), hour (0-24), day (1-31), month (1-12), year (>=1970).
.TP
.BR \-q ", " \-\-quiet
Quiet execution (useful for scripts).
.TP
.BR \-V ", " \-\-version
Print version and exit.
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I device
The device or image file containing the corrupted SSDFS file system.
.TP
.I root-folder
The destination folder where recovered files will be extracted.
The folder will be created if it doesn't exist.
.SH OPERATION
.B recoverfs.ssdfs
attempts to recover data from corrupted SSDFS volumes by:
.br
- Scanning the device for readable file system structures
.br
- Extracting accessible files and directories
.br
- Reconstructing directory hierarchy when possible
.br
- Recovering file content that is still readable
.br
- Optionally filtering by timestamp to recover specific file states
.SH EXIT STATUS
.B recoverfs.ssdfs
exits with status 0 on success, or with non-zero status on error.
.SH EXAMPLES
Recover all data from corrupted volume:
.br
.B # recoverfs.ssdfs /dev/sdb1 /tmp/recovered_data

Recover data with specific timestamp:
.br
.B # recoverfs.ssdfs -t minute=30,hour=14,day=15,month=8,year=2025 /dev/sdb1 /tmp/recovered_data

Quiet recovery with debug information:
.br
.B # recoverfs.ssdfs -q -d /dev/sdb1 /tmp/recovered_data

Multi-threaded recovery:
.br
.B # recoverfs.ssdfs -j 4 /dev/sdb1 /tmp/recovered_data
.SH NOTES
.B recoverfs.ssdfs
is a data recovery tool and should only be used on corrupted or damaged
file systems. It does not modify the original device/file system.

Recovery success depends on the extent of corruption. Some files may be
partially recovered or unrecoverable if the damage is extensive.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR mkfs.ssdfs (8),
.BR fsck.ssdfs (8),
.BR dump.ssdfs (8)
.SH AUTHORS
Viacheslav Dubeyko <slava@dubeyko.com>
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2022-2025 Viacheslav Dubeyko
.br
SPDX-License-Identifier: BSD-3-Clause-Clear