.TH RESIZE.SSDFS 8 "2025-08-30" "ssdfs-utils" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
resize.ssdfs \- resize volume of SSDFS file system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B resize.ssdfs
.RI [ options ]
.IR device | image-file
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B resize.ssdfs
resizes SSDFS file system volume by growing or shrinking the available space.
This utility can expand or reduce the file system size while preserving data integrity.
Various resize methods are supported including segment-based and percentage-based operations.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-b ", " \-\-make-snapshot
Make volume snapshot before resize operation for safety.
.TP
.BR \-c ", " \-\-check-by-fsck
Check volume by fsck after resize operation to verify consistency.
.TP
.BR \-d ", " \-\-debug
Show debug output.
.TP
.BR \-g ", " \-\-grow-by-segments " " \fInumber\fR
Grow volume by specified number of segments.
.TP
.BR \-G ", " \-\-grow-by-percentage " " \fIpercentage\fR
Grow volume by percentage value.
.TP
.BR \-f ", " \-\-force
Force file system volume resize (skip some safety checks).
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Display help message and exit.
.TP
.BR \-L ", " \-\-label " " \fIstring\fR
Set a volume label during resize.
.TP
.BR \-n ", " \-\-new_size " " \fIsize\fR
Specify new volume size in bytes.
.TP
.BR \-r ", " \-\-rollback
Rollback volume resize operation (undo previous resize).
.TP
.BR \-s ", " \-\-shrink-by-segments " " \fInumber\fR
Shrink volume by specified number of segments.
.TP
.BR \-S ", " \-\-shrink-by-percentage " " \fIpercentage\fR
Shrink volume by percentage value.
.TP
.BR \-V ", " \-\-version
Print version and exit.
.SH OPERATION MODES
.B resize.ssdfs
supports several resize methods:
.TP
.B Grow Operations
Expand file system size using segments (-g), percentage (-G), or absolute size (-n).
.TP
.B Shrink Operations
Reduce file system size using segments (-s), percentage (-S), or absolute size (-n).
.TP
.B Rollback Operation
Undo previous resize operation (-r).
.SH SAFETY FEATURES
.TP
.B Snapshot Creation
Use -b to create a snapshot before resize for data protection.
.TP
.B Post-resize Check
Use -c to automatically run fsck after resize to verify file system consistency.
.TP
.B Force Override
Use -f to bypass some safety checks (use with caution).
.SH EXIT STATUS
.B resize.ssdfs
exits with status 0 on success, or with non-zero status on error.
.SH EXAMPLES
Grow volume by 100 segments with snapshot:
.br
.B # resize.ssdfs -b -g 100 /dev/sdb1

Shrink volume by 20% with post-check:
.br
.B # resize.ssdfs -c -S 20 /dev/sdb1

Resize to specific size (1GB):
.br
.B # resize.ssdfs -n 1073741824 /dev/sdb1

Rollback previous resize operation:
.br
.B # resize.ssdfs -r /dev/sdb1

Safe resize with all protections:
.br
.B # resize.ssdfs -b -c -g 50 /dev/sdb1
.SH NOTES
.B resize.ssdfs
requires the file system to be unmounted before resize operations.
Always backup important data before resizing.

Growing operations are generally safer than shrinking operations.
When shrinking, ensure sufficient free space exists to avoid data loss.

Segment-based operations align with file system boundaries and are
typically more efficient than percentage-based operations.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR mkfs.ssdfs (8),
.BR fsck.ssdfs (8),
.BR tune.ssdfs (8),
.BR snapshotfs.ssdfs (8)
.SH AUTHORS
Viacheslav Dubeyko <slava@dubeyko.com>
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2023-2026 Viacheslav Dubeyko
.br
SPDX-License-Identifier: BSD-3-Clause-Clear