.TH SNAPSHOTFS.SSDFS 8 "2025-08-30" "ssdfs-utils" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
snapshotfs.ssdfs \- snapshot SSDFS file system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B snapshotfs.ssdfs
.RI [ options ]
.IR folder | file
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B snapshotfs.ssdfs
manages snapshots of SSDFS file system. This utility allows creation,
modification, listing, and deletion of file system snapshots for backup
and versioning purposes.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-c ", " \-\-create " " \fIname=value,mode=value,type=value,expiration=value,frequency=value,snapshots-threshold=value\fR
Create snapshot. Parameters:
.br
- name: snapshot name
.br
- mode: READ_ONLY or READ_WRITE
.br
- type: PERIODIC or ONE_TIME
.br
- expiration: WEEK, MONTH, YEAR, or NEVER
.br
- frequency: SYNCFS, HOUR, DAY, WEEK, or MONTH
.br
- snapshots-threshold: maximum number of snapshots
.TP
.BR \-d ", " \-\-debug
Show debug output.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Display help message and exit.
.TP
.BR \-l ", " \-\-list " " \fIminute=value,hour=value,day=value,month=value,year=value,mode=value,type=value,max-number=value\fR
Show list of snapshots with optional filtering by time, mode, type, and maximum number.
.TP
.BR \-m ", " \-\-modify " " \fIminute=value,hour=value,day=value,month=value,year=value,name=value,id=value,mode=value,type=value,expiration=value,frequency=value,snapshots-threshold=value\fR
Change snapshot's properties. Specify snapshot by name or id, along with timestamp and new properties.
.TP
.BR \-r ", " \-\-remove " " \fIname=value,id=value\fR
Delete snapshot by name or id.
.TP
.BR \-R ", " \-\-remove-range " " \fIminute=value,hour=value,day=value,month=value,year=value\fR
Delete range of snapshots by timestamp.
.TP
.BR \-s ", " \-\-show-details " " \fIname=value,id=value\fR
Show snapshot's details by name or id.
.TP
.BR \-V ", " \-\-version
Print version and exit.
.SH SNAPSHOT MODES
.TP
.B READ_ONLY
Snapshot is read-only and cannot be modified.
.TP
.B READ_WRITE
Snapshot allows read and write operations.
.SH SNAPSHOT TYPES
.TP
.B ONE_TIME
Single snapshot created manually.
.TP
.B PERIODIC
Automatic snapshots created based on frequency.
.SH EXPIRATION PERIODS
.TP
.B WEEK
Snapshot expires after one week.
.TP
.B MONTH
Snapshot expires after one month.
.TP
.B YEAR
Snapshot expires after one year.
.TP
.B NEVER
Snapshot never expires automatically.
.SH FREQUENCIES
.TP
.B SYNCFS
Create snapshot on each sync operation.
.TP
.B HOUR
Create snapshot every hour.
.TP
.B DAY
Create snapshot daily.
.TP
.B WEEK
Create snapshot weekly.
.TP
.B MONTH
Create snapshot monthly.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.B snapshotfs.ssdfs
exits with status 0 on success, or with non-zero status on error.
.SH EXAMPLES
Create a read-only periodic snapshot:
.br
.B # snapshotfs.ssdfs -c name=backup1,mode=READ_ONLY,type=PERIODIC,expiration=MONTH,frequency=DAY,snapshots-threshold=30 /mnt/ssdfs

List all snapshots:
.br
.B # snapshotfs.ssdfs -l max-number=100 /mnt/ssdfs

Show details of specific snapshot:
.br
.B # snapshotfs.ssdfs -s name=backup1 /mnt/ssdfs

Remove snapshot by name:
.br
.B # snapshotfs.ssdfs -r name=backup1 /mnt/ssdfs

Remove snapshots from specific date range:
.br
.B # snapshotfs.ssdfs -R minute=0,hour=0,day=1,month=7,year=2025 /mnt/ssdfs

Modify snapshot properties:
.br
.B # snapshotfs.ssdfs -m name=backup1,expiration=YEAR,frequency=WEEK /mnt/ssdfs
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR mkfs.ssdfs (8),
.BR fsck.ssdfs (8),
.BR dump.ssdfs (8)
.SH AUTHORS
Viacheslav Dubeyko <slava@dubeyko.com>
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2021-2025 Viacheslav Dubeyko
.br
SPDX-License-Identifier: BSD-3-Clause-Clear