.TH TEST.SSDFS 8 "2025-08-30" "ssdfs-utils" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
test.ssdfs \- test SSDFS file system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B test.ssdfs
.RI [ options ]
.IR device | image-file
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B test.ssdfs
performs unit tests for SSDFS file system subsystems.
This utility provides comprehensive testing capabilities for various
file system components including btrees, bitmaps, mapping tables,
and memory primitives.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-a ", " \-\-all
Test all subsystems.
.TP
.BR \-b ", " \-\-block-bitmap " " \fIcapacity=value,pre-alloc=value,alloc=value,invalidate=value,reserve=value\fR
Define block bitmap testing options with capacity, pre-allocation, allocation,
invalidation, and reservation parameters.
.TP
.BR \-d ", " \-\-shared-dictionary " " \fInames_number=value,name_len=value,step_factor=value\fR
Define shared dictionary testing options including number of names,
name length, and step factor.
.TP
.BR \-D ", " \-\-shared-extents-tree " " \fIextents_number=value,extent_len=value,ref_count_max=value\fR
Define shared extents tree testing options with number of extents,
extent length, and maximum reference count.
.TP
.BR \-e ", " \-\-extent " " \fImax_len=value\fR
Define extent related thresholds with maximum length.
.TP
.BR \-f ", " \-\-file " " \fImax_count=value,max_size=value\fR
Define file related thresholds including maximum count and size.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Display help message and exit.
.TP
.BR \-m ", " \-\-mapping-table " " \fIiterations=value,mappings_per_iter=value,add_migrations_per_iter=value,exclude_migrations_per_iter=value\fR
Define PEB mapping table testing options with iterations and migration parameters.
.TP
.BR \-M ", " \-\-memory-primitives " " \fIiterations=value,capacity=value,count=value,item_size=value,test_folio_vector,test_folio_array,test_dynamic_array,test_all\fR
Define memory primitives testing options for various data structures.
.TP
.BR \-n ", " \-\-snapshots-tree " " \fIsnapshots_number=value\fR
Define snapshots tree testing options with number of snapshots.
.TP
.BR \-o ", " \-\-offset-table " " \fIcapacity=value\fR
Define offsets table testing options with capacity parameter.
.TP
.BR \-p ", " \-\-pagesize " " \fIsize\fR
Page size of target device. Supported sizes: 4096, 8192, 16384, 32768 bytes.
.TP
.BR \-s ", " \-\-subsystem " " \fIsubsystem_list\fR
Define testing subsystems. Options: dentries_tree, extents_tree, block_bitmap,
offset_table, mapping_table, memory_primitives, segment_bitmap,
shared_dictionary, xattr_tree, shared_extents_tree, snapshots_tree.
.TP
.BR \-S ", " \-\-segment-bitmap " " \fIiterations=value,using_segs_per_iter=value,used_segs_per_iter=value,pre_dirty_segs_per_iter=value,dirty_segs_per_iter=value,cleaned_segs_per_iter=value\fR
Define segment bitmap testing options with various segment state parameters.
.TP
.BR \-V ", " \-\-version
Print version and exit.
.TP
.BR \-x ", " \-\-xattr-tree " " \fIxattrs_number=value,name_len=value,step_factor=value,blob_len=value,blob_pattern=value\fR
Define xattrs tree testing options with extended attributes parameters.
.SH TESTABLE SUBSYSTEMS
.B test.ssdfs
can test the following subsystems:
.TP
.B dentries_tree
Directory entries btree operations and consistency.
.TP
.B extents_tree
File extents btree operations and management.
.TP
.B block_bitmap
Block allocation bitmap functionality.
.TP
.B offset_table
Block-to-offset translation table operations.
.TP
.B mapping_table
Physical Erase Block (PEB) mapping table operations.
.TP
.B memory_primitives
Low-level memory management structures (folio arrays, dynamic arrays).
.TP
.B segment_bitmap
Segment state bitmap operations.
.TP
.B shared_dictionary
Shared string dictionary functionality.
.TP
.B xattr_tree
Extended attributes btree operations.
.TP
.B shared_extents_tree
Shared extents reference tracking.
.TP
.B snapshots_tree
File system snapshots management.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.B test.ssdfs
exits with status 0 if all tests pass, or with non-zero status if any test fails.
.SH EXAMPLES
Test all subsystems:
.br
.B # test.ssdfs -a /dev/sdb1

Test specific subsystem:
.br
.B # test.ssdfs -s block_bitmap /dev/sdb1

Test block bitmap with custom parameters:
.br
.B # test.ssdfs -b capacity=1024,pre-alloc=100,alloc=200 /dev/sdb1

Test mapping table with specific iterations:
.br
.B # test.ssdfs -m iterations=100,mappings_per_iter=10 /dev/sdb1

Test multiple subsystems:
.br
.B # test.ssdfs -s dentries_tree,extents_tree,block_bitmap /dev/sdb1

Test with custom page size:
.br
.B # test.ssdfs -p 8192 -a /dev/sdb1
.SH NOTES
.B test.ssdfs
is primarily intended for SSDFS file system development and validation.
Test operations may modify the target device/image file, so use with caution
on production systems.

Some tests may take considerable time to complete, especially with large
iteration counts or capacity values.

Testing helps ensure the reliability and correctness of SSDFS file system
implementations across different configurations and workloads.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR mkfs.ssdfs (8),
.BR fsck.ssdfs (8),
.BR dump.ssdfs (8)
.SH AUTHORS
Viacheslav Dubeyko <slava@dubeyko.com>
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2021-2026 Viacheslav Dubeyko
.br
SPDX-License-Identifier: BSD-3-Clause-Clear