.TH TUNE.SSDFS 8 "2025-08-30" "ssdfs-utils" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
tune.ssdfs \- tune volume of SSDFS file system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tune.ssdfs
.RI [ options ]
.IR folder | file
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B tune.ssdfs
adjusts tunable file system parameters on SSDFS file systems.
This utility allows modification of various file system settings
such as compression, backup options, and performance parameters.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-B ", " \-\-blkbmap " " \fIhas_copy=(enable|disable),compression=(none|zlib|lzo)\fR
Block bitmap options. Control backup copy and compression settings.
.TP
.BR \-d ", " \-\-debug
Show debug output.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Display help message and exit.
.TP
.BR \-g ", " \-\-get_config
Get current volume configuration and display all tunable parameters.
.TP
.BR \-L ", " \-\-label " " \fIlabel\fR
Set a volume label.
.TP
.BR \-M ", " \-\-maptbl " " \fIhas_copy=(enable|disable),log_pages=value,migration_threshold=value,reserved_pebs_per_fragment=percentage,compression=(none|zlib|lzo)\fR
PEB mapping table options. Configure backup copy, log pages, migration threshold,
reserved PEBs per fragment (1%-80%), and compression.
.TP
.BR \-O ", " \-\-offsets_table " " \fIhas_copy=(enable|disable),compression=(none|zlib|lzo)\fR
Offsets table options. Control backup copy and compression settings.
.TP
.BR \-S ", " \-\-segbmap " " \fIhas_copy=(enable|disable),log_pages=value,migration_threshold=value,compression=(none|zlib|lzo)\fR
Segment bitmap options. Configure backup copy, log pages, migration threshold, and compression.
.TP
.BR \-T ", " \-\-btree " " \fImin_index_area_size=value,leaf_node_log_pages=value,hybrid_node_log_pages=value,index_node_log_pages=value\fR
Btrees' options. Configure index area size and log pages for different node types.
.TP
.BR \-U ", " \-\-user_data_segment " " \fIlog_pages=value,migration_threshold=value,compression=(none|zlib|lzo)\fR
User data segment options. Configure log pages, migration threshold, and compression.
.TP
.BR \-V ", " \-\-version
Print version and exit.
.SH TUNABLE PARAMETERS
.TP
.B Backup Copy Options
Control whether backup copies of critical structures (block bitmap, segment bitmap,
mapping table, offsets table) are maintained. Options: enable or disable.
.TP
.B Compression Options
Set compression type for various file system structures. Options: none, zlib, lzo.
.TP
.B Log Pages
Configure the number of log pages for different structures.
.TP
.B Migration Threshold
Set the maximum number of migration PEBs for segments.
.TP
.B Reserved PEBs per Fragment
Configure the percentage of PEBs reserved per fragment (1%-80%).
.SH EXIT STATUS
.B tune.ssdfs
exits with status 0 on success, or with non-zero status on error.
.SH EXAMPLES
Display current configuration:
.br
.B # tune.ssdfs -g /mnt/ssdfs

Set volume label:
.br
.B # tune.ssdfs -L "MyStorage" /mnt/ssdfs

Enable backup copy for block bitmap with ZLIB compression:
.br
.B # tune.ssdfs -B has_copy=enable,compression=zlib /mnt/ssdfs

Configure mapping table with specific settings:
.br
.B # tune.ssdfs -M has_copy=enable,log_pages=16,migration_threshold=10,reserved_pebs_per_fragment=20,compression=lzo /mnt/ssdfs

Set user data segment compression:
.br
.B # tune.ssdfs -U compression=zlib /mnt/ssdfs

Configure btree parameters:
.br
.B # tune.ssdfs -T min_index_area_size=256,leaf_node_log_pages=8 /mnt/ssdfs
.SH NOTES
Some parameter changes may require unmounting and remounting the file system
to take effect. Always backup important data before making configuration changes.

The reserved PEBs per fragment percentage affects space utilization and
performance. Higher values provide better wear leveling but reduce available space.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR mkfs.ssdfs (8),
.BR fsck.ssdfs (8),
.BR dump.ssdfs (8)
.SH AUTHORS
Viacheslav Dubeyko <slava@dubeyko.com>
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2023-2026 Viacheslav Dubeyko
.br
SPDX-License-Identifier: BSD-3-Clause-Clear